# Introduction #
This page lists a number of possible projects based on reMail's source code and gives pointers on how to implement them.

If you're having trouble with any of this code, feel free to post on [the remail-iphone Google Group](http://groups.google.com/group/remail-iphone). I'm happy to add more details to this page if you need more pointers.

# Projects #

_(Note: I'm writing this page on the GBus from Mountain View to San Francisco, and I will get off at the SOMA stop. I will save this page and get off then, and pick up where I left on Monday. - Gabor)_

## Landscape mode ##
Difficulty: (3.5/5)

  * I think you can get away with just implementing landscape more for `SearchEntry`, `SearchResults`, `FolderList`, `MailboxView`, and `MailView`
  * Read Apple's reference docs for `UIViewController` on how to implement autorotation
  * `SearchEntry` and `FolderList` should be trivial to autorotate
  * With `SearchResults` and `SearchEntry` you have to make sure that the `MailItemCell`s correctly adjust for more width
  * `MailView` is a bit trickier - all the stuff in `loadedEmail` assumes a display width of 320 pixels, so you need to adjust the code for device orientation and reload

## Password / Lock Screen ##
Difficulty: (3/5)

Before I explain this, I should point out that while adding a lock screen to reMail might be a good idea, you should always, always have a PIN lock on your phone. Yes, adding a lock screen to reMail will protect you from a thief reading your mail. But if you don't have a PIN code, reMail will be the least of your worries since a thief can impersonate you, read your notes, and steal other personal info. PIN code your phone!

How to do this:
  * Create a new xib and ViewController for the configuration screen.
  * Create a new xib and ViewController for the screen where you enter and change your PIN.
  * Add some accessors to `AppSettings` so you can read / write your PIN.
  * In `ReMailAppDelegate.application:didFinishLaunching:withOptions`, call your PIN check screen if a PIN code is set. You could do this by calling `UIViewController.presentModalViewController:` - that might be the easiest option.

## Add more account types ##
Difficulty: (1/5)

This is about adding more preconfigured account types for Mobile Me, GMX, etc.

  * Add a new button to `AccountTypeSelect` that calls up a `FlexiConfig` view with the right parameters (server, port, etc.). The button can be pretty plain or have the  provider's logo - just make sure you have the right to use that logo.
  * In `SettingsList`, consider changing the logo based on account type
  * Test, Test, Test

## Autocomplete previous searches, not just names ##
Difficulty: (2/5)

  * The `SearchEntry` view controller currently autocompletes by calling `[SearchRunner autocomplete:]`
  * In `SearchRunner.autocomplete`, we query the Contacts db's `search_contact_name` fts3 table. You should also query the `past_query` table.
  * Add some metadata about whether you're returning a past query of person name.
  * In `SearchEntry`, make sure you trigger the right kind of search - `goFTSearch` and `goPersonSearch` lead to different types of queries

## Pre-sync headers of all emails, then sync contents ##
Difficulty:  (5/5)

  * I would start by gaining a deep understaning of `ImapFolderWorker`
  * Then introduce a pre-sync phase where you sync all headers
  * That pre-sync phase would be triggered from `ImapSync` the first time you encounter a folder

## Download all attachments by default ##
Difficulty: (2/5)

  * Add a `PSToggleSwitch` to `Settings.bundle` - this will show up in iPhone > Settings > reMail
  * Add some function in `AppSettings` to reflect that setting
  * Understand `ImapFolderWorker`'s `fetchFrom:` function
  * Read `AttachmentDownloader` for how to download attachments and where to store them
  * Test test test

## Re-scan folders and delete messages that have been deleted on the server ##
Difficulty: (4/5)

  * Add a new sync phase in `ImapSync` that scans all the headers
  * Generate hashes and diff them agains the uid\_hashes generated by EmailProcessor for duplicate detection

## Localize into more languages ##
Difficulty: (1/5) - but this is a lot of work

Currently, reMail is localized into German (well) and French (badly). You could help by translating into more languages.

  * Go through all the xib's
  * Create a new Localizable.strings

## In search results, see which folder an email is in. ##
Difficulty: (1/5)

  * This is pretty simple to add in `MailView`'s `loadedEmail:` method